[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
My name's Gregg Braden.
And I'd like to welcome you to
this very special presentation
of "The Divine Matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."
In the last episode,
we discovered
that we are biologically
wired to rewrite the reality
code of the divine
matrix, and to do so
in seemingly superhuman ways.
Well in this episode,
I'll describe
why our advanced knowledge of
the divine matrix and our role
in it literally holds the
key not only to our healing,
but to the fate and the
survival of our entire world.
There's a battle unfolding
on the world stage, that's
playing out on a daily basis
in our everyday lives--
in your life and in my life.
When we see this battle
in unexpected ways,
it's a daily
struggle between what
we call good and evil, light and
dark, knowledge and ignorance.
Between being victims
and being empowered so
that we're no longer victims.
Well the battle
I'm talking about,
it's playing out in the
scientific community as well.
And we see this
battle as the fight
to maintain what we call
the standard model when
it comes to the story of us,
of the universe, of our lives.
And the story of our origin
as well as our potential.
Now the current standard
model, it's based on a story
that you and I have been
steeped in from the time
that we were born.
It's the story of
Western civilization.
It is a story based upon
separation, competition,
conflict, struggle, scarcity.
It's the sterile-sounding
story of a dead universe,
of random mutations
that just happened
as a result of just the
right conditions converging
at just the right time
in just the right way,
requiring a series of events
that are so lucky, that even
scientists say it
takes an act of faith
to believe the story
that we're being told.
Well there's a new standard
model that's emerging.
It has to, because
the evidence--
the science-based evidence
no longer supports
the scientific story
of the existing model.
And the new standard model
is a very different story.
It's the story of a universe
that is alive, it's vibrant.
It's a story of a universe
where life is the rule rather
than the rare exception.
It's a story that creates a
model based upon cooperation,
not competition; upon
abundance, not scarcity;
upon mutual aid and
self-empowerment
through self-regulation.
And I want to stop
right here and just
be very, very clear, that is
what this series is all about.
You are learning about
your relationship
to the divine matrix.
You're learning about
your relationship
to the field that not
only connects all things,
it's the field that
makes you who you are.
You are emerging constantly--
quanta is reemerging
and reemerging
and reemerging as the atoms
of your body from this field.
This is such a powerful
concept, that we're not
separate from the
field-- it is within us,
it is emerging as us.
And because we are part of
rather than separate from,
we are given the
ability to self-regulate
how we relate to this
field, and we've just
seen that we're wired to do
this-- our biology is actually
designed perfectly
for specifically
and exactly this kind
of self-regulation.
So the evidence that
supports these discoveries,
they're telling us
a new human story.
Now I have to tell you,
it is a beautiful story,
it is a powerful story.
It's a story of hope, the
story of possibility based
in rock solid evidence
of the new science
and the new discoveries.
And you know, I am
still mystified.
You would think
that people would
be so happy to hear
the new discoveries
and then to embrace the
potential that they offer.
The reality is, unfortunately,
we are simply not seeing
these discoveries-- as I
mentioned before, you're not
seeing them in the mainstream.
Mainstream
classrooms, textbooks,
mainstream documentaries,
cable television.
And it's for this
reason that I am
so passionate about this
program specifically
and "Missing Links" in general.
Because it gives
me the opportunity
to share with you
what you're not
seeing from these other venues.
We need the new human story
and we need it right now.
And we need it because of
one very simple reason--
the better we know
ourselves, the less
we fear change in the world.
If you think about it, we
are self-referencing beings.
And what that means is that
our sense of well-being
typically depends
upon how we feel
about what's happening in our
external world and the world
out there.
Well, you know and I know
our world is changing,
and it's changing
ways that we haven't
seen in 5,000 years of
recorded human history.
And the changes
can be frightening
unless we've learned to
find our sense of well-being
from within rather than
relying upon the stability
of the big world out there--
the external world to help
us feel good about ourselves.
So the better we know
ourselves, the less
we fear change in the world.
But it goes beyond that.
The better we know ourselves,
the less we fear one another.
The less we fear
one another-- and we
are being forced together as a
global community in ways that
have not happened in our
lifetimes-- in many ways,
in the instances,
it hasn't happened
in recorded human history.
I want you to think about
what I'm saying here.
We are living in a
globalized world.
We're globalizing through
technology, obviously,
through communications.
We live in a
globalized economy, we
live in a world of globalized
defense, a world where
we are sharing resources
on a global level in ways
that we've never
done in the past.
So what's happening
is that the borders--
not the borders necessarily
inbetween countries,
but the divisions that have
separated us in the past
are now no longer in place.
And as people are pushed
together as cultures,
as people are pushed
together as religions
through the way that we think
and the way we treat one
another and the way we
think of men and the way
we think of women and
different cultures.
These differences are showing
up as the world is globalized,
and being pushed together,
we're trying to think and solve
the problems through
the story of our past
that's based on the
false assumptions
of an obsolete science, and
it's not working for us,
and that is why what I'm
saying to you is so powerful.
Because what I'm
sharing with you now,
this takes everything--
all of the science, all
of the mysteries,
all of the lost texts
and the ancient wisdom and the
internal technology and all
that, we're coming full circle.
We're coming full
circle and we're
looking at how these
new discoveries have
a direct bearing upon what's
happening in your world,
in my world; your life
and my life today.
And that's why this
is so important.
And perhaps most
importantly, not only is it
true that the better we
know ourselves, the less we
fear change, the
less we fear one
another, the better we
know ourselves, the less we
fear ourselves.
I'm going to be very personal.
I'm going to look right at you.
The better you know yourself,
the less you fear yourself.
The less you fear
your own power--
and I want to tell you, you
are one very powerful being.
And I hope that
is obvious to you.
Through everything that
we've gone through,
for thousands of years, the
texts and the traditions
have worked to do just
the opposite-- to keep you
from accessing the depths,
the extent, the potential that
lives within you as a human,
living within this field,
living within the divine matrix.
And in a large
extent, it's worked,
and I'm not saying it's
right, wrong, good, or bad,
because whatever has
happened in the past,
it worked well enough
to get us here--
we're here now, all right?
And now we're living not only
the convergence of societies
and peoples and cultures--
think about this-- we're living
the convergence of wisdom.
We're living the convergence
of two great ways of knowing--
5,000 years-- of the
wisdom of our ancestors'
spiritual traditions,
not science.
And the best science
of the modern world's
only about 300 years old.
Those two ways of knowing
are come together right now
precisely at the
time we need it,
when we are perched right on the
edge of war in our world today.
You feel the push toward war
because many people believe
that that is the
answer to the problems
because that has been
the answer in the past.
But we also see war's
no longer working.
In the old way of thinking,
when there was a war,
there was a winner
and a loser and there
was something to be gained.
And we all know
now that if there
is a war, whatever wars we're
looking at, nobody wins,
everybody loses.
And I think that's obvious.
And the powers
that be know that.
And so that's why there's
this window of opportunity,
this opening for new
wisdom-- new ways of living,
new ways of thinking,
new understandings,
and what you and I
are doing right now,
this is at the foundation--
this is the key for everything
I'm saying here, and that is
what "Missing Links" is all
about.
The less we fear our own power,
the less we fear our own power,
the more we can incorporate
these our lives.
So through the
episodes that I've
developed throughout this
series, you and I together,
we built a new understanding
as well as the vocabulary
as I've said before.
So that we can explore what
this new way of thinking
is all about when it comes to
us and our world and our bodies.
In season number 1, I
described this convergence
of the natural cycles
that's creating
the chaos of a changing world.
Where'd those cycles come
from, how long they last
and what they mean?
Season number 2, we
went even further,
but rather than the big
cycles, we went within.
We explored the
scientific evidence
suggesting the very real
possibility that you and I are
living in a simulation.
That we are living in
a simulated environment
in a virtual reality.
Season 3 is where we are right
now, through the divine matrix.
Now we've gone deeper
into the field of energy
that allows our
simulated reality
to work the way it works
and what it appears
to be based upon so that we can
access the codes of this matrix
through our greatest
levels of mastery.
Now I want you to know that
what we're doing here, again,
it's more than just
an interesting topic,
a philosophical way
of thinking about the world.
What we're doing right now has
a direct link to what you're
seeing in the world today.
Our story matters.
Your story matters.
And here's the reason--
because we live our lives
based upon our story.
We solve our problems.
We choose our
relationships based
upon the story we tell
ourselves about ourself.
Now let's stop here and just
invite you to think about this.
The people that you
invite into your life
are based upon the
way you've been
taught to think about yourself.
The relationships
that you built,
the people that you
invite in your home--
and let's be real, the people
you invite into your bed
are based on the
way you have been
taught to think about yourself.
Your self-esteem,
your self-worth,
all of these influence
the way that you think
and the way you
solve your problems,
even the way you heal
your body in the world.
Have you been taught
that you're part
of what's happening
in your body or you've
been taught that your body
just kind of does its own thing
and when something happens
you don't understand,
you need some help?
I'm not saying one
way of thinking
is right, wrong, good, or
bad, I'm not judging it.
I'm drawing a contrast here.
We are emerging from a world
and the way of thinking
that served us in the past.
And if the world
were not changing,
maybe it would
continue to serve us.
But you and I know,
the world is changing--
we just talked about that.
So what that means is, we've
got to think differently, we've
got to live differently, perhaps
more so now than we ever have.
So for 150 years, science
has taught us this story.
It's this story of separation,
competition, conflict,
struggle, scarcely,
and the like.
It goes even deeper than that.
It's the story when it comes
to us of random mutations.
Random mutations in
DNA that just happened
to form with no special--
no specialness around this, OK?
Random mutations
and insignificance.
Now astronomer Carl Sagan, he
echoed this viewpoint in a way
that I couldn't have
done better myself.
I'm going to share with you a
direct quote from Carl Sagan,
and you say it's an
interesting quote,
but look at how
it reinforces what
it is that I'm saying to you.
And then I'm going to
take it even deeper.
I'm going to share with
you what is being taught
in the university classrooms
to our young people
and how they are being taught
about the insignificance
of our lives and life itself.
So let me to share
with you Carl Sagan.
He said, quote, "We
find that we live
on an insignificant planet--"
there it is right there--
"of a humdrum star, lost
in a galaxy, tucked away
in some forgotten corner of
a universe in which there
are far more galaxies than
there are people," end of quote.
Now look at this
way of thinking.
What he's saying
is that we occupy
such an insignificant
place in creation.
Remember in earlier episodes,
John Wheeler, Princeton
University physicist, friend and
colleague of Albert Einstein,
he said just the opposite.
He said that "We are creating
the universe as we go."
These are very different
ways of thinking.
But Sagan is not alone in his
sense of our insignificance.
So I'd like to
share another quote,
and this is the one I
referenced just a moment ago.
It's coming directly from
a very popular chemistry
book that's used in American
colleges and universities
today.
And the reason I'm sharing this
is because this quote tells
our young people what life is.
And I'm going to
invite you to listen
to how sterile and lifeless
this definition of life
actually sounds.
Here's the definition.
The text says that
"Life is," quote,
"a behavior pattern that
chemical systems exhibit
when they reach a certain level
of complexity," end the quote.
I'm going to say that again--
"Life is a behavior pattern
that chemical systems
exhibit when they reach a
certain level of complexity."
Wow.
Where is the specialness
of life in this definition?
All right?
And that's the problem.
We're teaching an entire
generation of young people
that life is insignificant.
And if you think that
that's not happening,
look at the video
games that young people
are playing where life is
snuffed out in a heartbeat.
Look at the ease with
which life is taken.
Day in and day out
in the major cities
not only of America, not only of
the West, throughout the world.
Look at the ease with
which we are willing to go
into war to solve our problems.
As different as those
things are from one another,
they all have a common
denominator, and each of them,
in each instance, the
significance of life is lost.
I'm going to say it another way.
The only way those
things can happen
is because life has lost its
specialness, its significance.
It's this thinking that
is leading us, as I said,
to some of the greatest
acts of brutality
and hate that we see
in the world today,
and I don't like to
talk about these things.
I wrote a book recently in
2017, "Human by Design,"
and what I'm going to
share with you now,
it was the most difficult
part of the book
for me to research and to write,
and I left a lot of things
out because I didn't
want to inundate
my readers with the horrors and
the brutality, but it's real,
it's out there.
Hate is on the rise.
Hate based upon the
color of our skin,
hate based upon our religion,
upon our sexual orientation.
The atrocities that we see
in places like Rwanda, Syria,
and Nicaragua, the
atrocities of war
that I mentioned, all
of these, they are only
possible because of the way you
and I and the people around us
have been taught to think.
They're only possible
because of a way of thinking.
In 1962, there was a woman,
her name was Rachel Carson.
She was one of the
first environmentalists
in the modern world.
I have so much respect,
and I revere her work
on such a deep level.
You may be familiar
with her work.
She wrote a book that was
titled, "Silent Spring,"
and it was the warning
sign-- the red light
to the dangers at that time
of the pesticide that was
being used, it was called DDT.
And if you're in my age
bracket, you may remember DDT--
I remember living in the
Midwest in the summer months.
Trucks would drive up and
down the street spraying
this cloud, this
gaseous cloud of DDT
into the gutters
along the street
to keep mosquitoes
from breeding.
And while they
were doing that, we
were told that it was harmless.
And so kids would follow
right behind the truck playing
in the cloud of DDT.
Now I didn't know then what I
know now, but I knew enough--
I had a sense that something
wasn't right and I was never
among those young people
and I'm glad that I didn't.
Because we now know that DDT is
far from a harmless pesticide,
and we could do a whole
episode based on that.
But what Rachel Carson
said during that time,
she made a statement
in that book
and I want to share it with you,
because it is as potent today
as it was the 1960s.
Listen to the wisdom of Rachel
Carson and what she says.
She says, "We only destroy
what we don't value,
and we can only value
what we understand."
Wow.
Human life is being
destroyed, and it's
happening right in front of
us at an unprecedented rate.
And if we're honest
with ourselves,
you know and I know it's true.
It's happening and it continues,
and it's only happening
because of a way of thinking.
I keep coming back to this,
because everything that
we're talking about here is
a different way of thinking,
it's a new way of thinking that
makes the old thinking that
leads to gains things that
we're talking about obsolete, .
2009, then President
Barack Obama
signed into law a
law that should never
have needed to be created.
It was called the Matthew
Shepard/James Byrd Hate Crimes
Prevention Act.
And it was signed into law--
in memory of the
lives of the two men
who were taken at the
same time in 1998-- two
different incidents in 1998.
These men lost
their lives in acts
that were so brutal, that
their stories could only
be shared on the evening news
after there was a warning that
preceded the story
telling parents
that what was about
to be aired might not
be appropriate for young
people or some audiences.
I'm not going to go into details
here and I didn't in the book,
but what I'm going
to say to you is
what happened to those two men.
And the reason that
that law was passed
are all the result of a way
of thinking we've been taught
that life is not significant.
I'm going to come back
to this again and again,
because ultimately, the laws
are only a temporary bandage.
A law can make it
illegal to hate,
but a law cannot change the hate
that exists because of a way
of thinking.
So if we're ever going
to end the hate that's
destroying our families, that's
polarizing our societies,
that's tearing nations
apart, if we're ever
going to heal this-- to
truly heal it, not just put
a temporary bandage
on it, you know
and I know we've got to go right
to the core of the problem,
and that's what we're doing.
To the thinking that places
such little value on life--
on life being so insignificant.
And what that means
is we got to find ways
and we need to
find reasons to do
just that-- to think differently
about ourselves and life
in general.
"Missing Links"
gives us a reason
to do everything
that I've just said.
So the reasons that I've
shared with you what
I've shared
throughout this series
and through the entire
"Missing Link" series
is because what I'm saying to
you, it's not my speculation,
it's not my theory,
it's not my hypothesis.
I get emails asking me about
my theory of the divine matrix.
What I'm saying to you is based
upon peer-reviewed science--
now I have synthesized
it in a way
that you may not
see in other places.
And I'm not saying that
every scientist is aware
of what every other
scientist has done
or that every scientist agrees
with the peer-reviewed science,
because that's not true.
But what I am saying
to you is that what
I'm sharing with you
is well-researched,
it's documented upon
rock-solid science,
and it is based upon
the best science
that the modern
world has to offer.
Maybe it's going to
change, and when it does,
science is designed
to be updated,
and I will update you with a
new science in new episodes.
But for right now, the best
science of the modern world
is telling us that
there's a new human story.
So what I'd like
to do, I'm going
to take just a few
moments and I want
to summarize the
reasons that science
is giving us to change
the way we think--
the essence of the
new human story,
and then where the divine
matrix fits into that story.
So I'm going to
begin our summary
with the foundation
of our reality
and the new thinking
regarding this reality
that we live in that
gives us new ways to think
about the deepest
experiences and the most
important questions of life.
Where does life come from?
What is God?
What is death?
What is life?
When we pray what
are we praying to?
What are angels?
Where do they come from?
All of these kinds
of questions now
are being answered in a
new way through the growing
body of scientific evidence that
we shared in season number 2
of "Missing Links."
The evidence that suggests that
you and I are living, in fact,
in a simulated reality.
Doesn't mean that
we're not real--
we're very real to one
another, but that means that
there's more to us than what
we have been led to believe
that's happening here, and
there's another world that we
cannot see that is influencing
what is happening for you and I
in this world.
Remember, this growing
body of evidence
that suggests that
consciousness informs itself
through its creations.
Books, music,
television, and movies.
Think about the powerful
movies of other realities--
"The Matrix," "Avatar,"
"Inception," and more.
Let's say there's
another world out there,
and I'm not saying everything
in those movies is accurate,
but the themes are reminding
us of what the science is now
showing us, is that there's
a growing body of evidence,
and the odds are better that
we are in a simulated reality
than that we are not--
a simulated experience,
a simulated reality
of a virtual world.
So that is the first
new way of thinking
that lays the foundation
for everything else that
is happening that we've shared
through the series "Missing
Links."
The second discovery
is about where we fit
into that simulated reality.
And I want to tell you
this and be very clear--
I am a degreed geologist
an earth scientist,
I've worked in the universities
and the corporations,
and what I'm going to
say to you right now
is 180 degrees
opposed to everything
that I've been taught and
what you have been taught,
and it is also with
the evidence supports.
Evolution.
Darwin's story of evolution is
a fact for some forms of life.
For many animals, for many
plants, for many insects,
I've seen it in
the fossil record.
The story breaks down when
it comes to you and me.
We are not the product of
Darwin's idea of evolution.
What we now know is the
physical evidence simply
does not support it.
The physical evidence never has.
When we look at those
ancient forms of life
on the tree, what's called
the evolutionary tree of life
and we see us as modern humans
connected, the lines that
connect us, they're all
broken or dashed lines
because they are
inferred lines, they
are speculative relationships.
They're believed to
exist, the evidence
has never been found to support
the fact that they exist.
The DNA evidence-- number
3, the DNA evidence
is telling us that
we are not related
to those other forms of life.
For example, when we compare
our DNA to Neanderthal DNA
that we can now extract
from Neanderthal remains,
their genome and
our genome, there's
not enough overlap-- we did not
descend from the Neanderthal,
they are not where we came from.
But the evidence
is also showing--
and this is the next discovery--
that you and I emerged--
modern humans-- we're called
anatomically-modern humans
showed up on Earth
about 200,000 years ago.
Here's the kicker--
we haven't changed.
We showed up 200,000
years ago, our DNA today
is the same as the
DNA from when we
showed up to 200,000 years ago.
We showed up with
a brain 50% larger
than our nearest
primate relatives--
than the chimps, orangutans.
We showed up with an
extended neural network that
allows us to self-regulate,
and we've explored that
through the series in a way
that no other form of life
that we're aware of can do.
And it was with
us from the moment
that we appeared-- it did
not develop slowly, gradually
over a long period of time.
It is not the
hallmark of evolution.
Scientists now
recognize this, and it
has led them to what is
called forbidden territory.
Because in acknowledging
what I just said,
they are saying it
appears that there
is some kind of an intent
underlying what we showed up
with 200,000 years ago.
The timing, the
precision with which
our DNA was fused to give us
the capabilities that we have
of speech, language, 50% larger
brain than any other primate
relative, it all happened
at the same time--
did not happen slowly, gradually
over a long period of time.
So we showed up,
we haven't changed,
and we showed up with
all the capabilities
that we have today.
The next discovery is
that the DNA is telling us
precisely how this happened and
what those capabilities are all
about.
And the discovery after
that is showing us that once
we begin to embrace the fact
that we appeared 200,000
years ago fully enabled,
fully intact with everything
that we have now,
how do we awaken
the potential of
our appearance--
what we showed up with?
How do we awaken that
in our world today?
And this is where I invited you
beginning in season number 1--
heart-brain harmony.
When we harmonize these two
powerful organs in our bodies
into a single potent
system, that sets the stage,
all systems go where we
optimize human potential.
And once we do that, we
have a myriad opportunities
as to what we do with
that heart-brain harmony.
We can activate deep
states of intuition
on demand, powerful
immune response on demand.
Longevity enzymes in our body,
we can wake them up on demand.
We can create resilience
to tremendous change,
just like we're experiencing
our lives right now,
on Demand and so much more.
All of this is happening
within this matrix.
The next discovery
is the science,
the science that
we've asked to tell us
who we are is now coming back
to us with even more answers.
And they're telling us
that there is, in fact,
a field of energy--
the web or the net that our
most ancient and cherished
spiritual traditions
have always referred to,
that now scientists
are referring
to this as the Higgs field,
the discovery in 2012
that we talked about early in
this series, in this program.
The Higgs field.
It is out there,
it is universal,
it's everywhere all the time.
It's been with us from the time
of the primal release of energy
we know is the big bang.
We know that field is there.
We also know that
we are that field.
Once again, it's a very
different way of thinking.
Every atom in your
body right now
is emerging from the field
that permeates our existence.
We are the matrix.
We are the field.
The next discovery tells us
that we are biologically wired
to interact with this field.
Now I personally
believe-- and this
is where I'll separate science
fact from my personal beliefs.
The wiring is so
precise, it appears
to have an intentionality.
So I call it a design.
Now I'm not saying
who or what or why
because I don't know the
answer, and scientists
doesn't know either--
that's the whole point.
We will only know when
we begin to follow
the evidence the story.
tells rather than trying
to fit the evidence
into a pre-existing idea.
So the new human story,
I've just shared with you
the essence of the
new human story
that has unfolded
through "Missing Links"
and where we are so far.
The new human story.
It's a story of connection,
unity, self-empowerment,
self-regulation.
Maybe it's no accident
that the new human story
is emerging now, as I
mentioned before, when
the world needs it the most.
When globalization is
forcing us together in ways
we haven't seen in 5,000 years
of recorded human history.
Before his death in 1983, a man
that I've always looked up to
and I hold in very high
esteem, Buckminster Fuller,
he made a statement
that tells us
about where we are in the world
right now, and what he said
is so true, I'm
going to share it
with you as we bring this part
of our program to a close.
What Buckminster Fuller
said is that "We will never
change the world by fighting
the existing reality."
He says if you want
to change the world,
create a new model that
makes the old model obsolete.
You and I are doing
that right now.
There's a lot of
us in the world,
and we are embracing
the new discoveries that
are telling a new human story,
and that is the new model.
Cooperation of ways of
thinking and being that
allow us to come
together in community,
and community is the
answer in times of extremes
like we're living right now.
We never change things by
fighting the existing reality.
Build a new model that makes
the old model obsolete.
Knowing that we're connected
through the divine matrix
gives us the reasons
to think differently
about ourselves, one another,
and ultimately our world.
And if we've ever needed
to think differently,
now is clearly the
time as we experience
this global collision
of people and religions
and cultures and
genders and worldviews.
The question is simple.
The question now
is, do we believe
that we're worth
the work it takes
to embrace this
extraordinary potential that
lives within us and our
relationship to the matrix?
Well, We won't have to
wait long to know how
we've answered this question.
We'll know by the
world that we choose
to leave for our children.
I hope you've enjoyed watching
this series as much as I've
enjoyed creating it
for you, and I just
want to take this
opportunity to thank you
for joining me for this
entire season of "Missing
Links, The Divine matrix--
Bridging Time, Space,
Miracles, and Belief."
[MUSIC PLAYING]